- [Instructor] To start working with Twilio,
we'll need to register a client.
We can start that process by clicking
on the Signup button on the homepage.
From here, just go ahead, enter your name and your email,
and then establish a password for this account.
Next, you'll have to accept the Terms of Service
and then just click on, Start Your Free Trial.
From here, you're going to receive a verification email,
so you'll need to click
on that email within your inbox, and then sign in.
So I just received my verification email.
I'm going to go ahead and enter my email and then hit Next.
And from here, I'll type in my password.
The next thing that will happen is that you'll
be asked to enter your phone number
in order to perform a text message verification.
So go ahead, enter your phone number
into the text box and hit Verify.
You should then get a text message
and that will contain a code that you'll need
to enter into this text box.
Okay, once you enter the code and hit Submit,
they're going to ask you a couple questions.
They want to know what product you're going to use.
We're going to use the SMS API.
And then they want to know what we're going to build.
Our toll is all about Alerts and Notifications,
so we'll select that option.
We're going to be building it
with code and that code will be Java.
We will host the code ourselves,
so we don't have to indicate we're interested
in Twilio hosting our code.
Okay, go ahead, click on Get Started.
And now we have an account.
There you see the account SID and the Auth Token.
Those are the credentials that we will send
to satisfy the basic OAuth authentication.
Now, it's important that you establish a trial phone number.
So click on this, Get a trial phone number button.
And they're going to propose a phone number to you.
If you like the number,
go ahead and click on, Choose this Number.
And then, once they confirm that you have the number,
go ahead and copy this into notepad
or some other tool, so that you have it handy,
we'll need that later.
Okay, so we have a phone number,
and we have our credentials.
That's enough to make a test call.
Let's head over to the documentation.
So we'll navigate into the API Reference.
And from here, just go ahead
and click on the Send SMS and MMS Messages.
And this is going to describe the call
that we can use to send a text message.
I'm going to go ahead and click on CURL,
so that I can see the parts of the HTTP message.
Now, let's copy the URI,
and then we're going to take that over to Postman.
And for now, I'm just going to paste it in here.
And you'll notice, it was a POST that we needed to perform.
The next thing we're going to do is head back
into the portal, in order to grab our Account SID,
because you'll remember that is part
of the URI that we need to construct.
We can put that in the URI,
here where the path variable would go.
And then in order to establish the authentication,
we can click here on the Authorization tab
and then select Basic Auth.
You'll see the option about midway through the list.
And here we'll need to enter the Account SID
as the username, make sure you don't have any spaces.
And then, we'll go back over here to grab our Auth Token,
and we'll put that in as our password.
Okay.
Now, if we go into the Body of the message,
we're going to check the x-www-form-urlencoded,
it's not JSON, remember that.
Then we're going to specify the Body.
We'll just say, "Hello, LinkedIn."
So this will be the text message.
Then you'll need to specify a To number
as well as a From number.
You'll remember that our From number,
we should have squirreled that away somewhere.
And we can drop that in.
And then, I'm going to go ahead and enter my phone number,
in order to send the text message to myself.
Okay, so we have a sample call constructed.
Just go ahead and hit Send.
So did you get a text message?
I did.
Pretty amazing, right?
If you haven't used the Twilio API before,
you're probably having an aha moment.
Our simple HTTP call built with Postman on your laptop
just traversed major telecom networks
and probably a couple satellites
to travel a couple inches to the phone right next to you.
It's really easy to see the power that's delivered
by REST APIs and Twilio in the scenario.
It just took a few minutes.